Bar graphs are the pictorial representation of data (generally
grouped), in the form of vertical or horizontal rectangular
bars, where the length of bars are proportional to the
measure of data. They are also known as bar charts. Bar
graphs are one of the means of data handling in statistics.

The collection, presentation, analysis, organization,
and interpretation of observations of data are known as
statistics. The statistical data can be represented by
various methods such as tables, bar graphs, pie charts,
histograms, frequency polygons, etc. In this article, let
us discuss what is a bar chart, different types of Bar
graphs, uses, and solved examples.


What is Bar Graph?
The pictorial representation of grouped data, in the
form
of vertical or horizontal rectangular bars, where the
lengths of the bars are equivalent to the measure of data,
are known as bar graphs or bar charts.

The bars drawn are of uniform width, and the variable quantity
is represented on one of the axes. Also, the measure of the
variable is depicted on the other axes. The heights or the
lengths of the bars denote the value of the variable, and
these graphs are also used to compare certain quantities.
The frequency distribution tables can be easily represented
using bar charts which simplify the calculations and
understanding of data.

The three major attributes of bar graphs are:

The bar graph helps to compare the different sets of data
among different groups easily.
It shows the relationship using two axes, in which the categories
are on one axis and the discrete values are on the other axis.
The graph shows the major changes in data over time.
What Constitutes a Bar Graph?
Following are the many parts of a bar graph:
Vertical axis
Horizontal axis

The bar graph’s title informs the reader of its purpose.
The title of the horizontal axis indicates the information
that is shown there.
The title of the vertical axis indicates the data it is
used to display.
The categories on the particular axis indicate what each bar
represents.

The bar graph’s scale demonstrates how numbers are used in the
data. It is a system of markings spaced at specific intervals
that aid in object measurement. For instance, the scale of a
graph may be stated as 1 unit = 10 fruits
